Module 8: Monitoring in Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Troubleshooting and Monitoring Microsoft Azure Stack and Guest Operating Systems
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

The Azure Stack implementation in Contoso Ltd. has grown considerably with a
number of tenants managing their own virtual machines and applications. You need
to ensure that the Azure Stack infrastructure is monitored appropriately to
ensure tenant workloads are available at all times. Additionally, some of the
tenants wish to monitor their own applications and services. To facilitate this,
you must implement Operations Manager monitoring for these workloads. Finally,
you must use the built-in monitoring capabilities of Azure Stack to troubleshoot
an issue that has been reported with the Azure Stack infrastructure.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Use Operations Manager to monitor Azure Stack.

-   Monitor guest operating systems by using Operations Manager.

-   Troubleshoot Azure Stack by using the Audit Logs and Alerts.

Lab Setup

**Estimated Time:** 60 minutes

**Host Computer:** AZS-RDP01

**User Name:** AzureStack\\CloudAdminX

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Use Operations Manager to monitor Azure Stack.

-   Monitor guest operating systems by using Operations Manager.

-   Troubleshoot Azure Stack by using the Audit Logs and Alerts.

### Exercise 1: Monitoring Azure Stack

Scenario

Contoso already has an Operations Manager implementation that is used to monitor
its applications and services. You must extend this monitoring to include the
Azure Stack infrastructure including offers and plans that have been created in
Azure Stack.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Importing the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

2.  Import the Azure Stack certificate and enable communications to Azure Stack

3.  Configuring the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

4.  Confirming Operations Manager Azure Stack Monitoring

####   Task 1: Importing the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                        |
|----------|----------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **AZS-RDP01**                                |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                        |
| Location | **Task Bar**                                 |
| URL      | **https://portal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  Open Internet Explorer and browse to
    **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

2.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\ASUserX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3.  From the **More Services** section. open **Virtual Machines**

4.  Select **SCOM01** and then use the **Connect** option to connect to the
    virtual machine using the following credentials:

    -   Username: **.\\DemoAdmin**

    -   Password: **Password12345**

5.  From the **Start** menu on **SCOM01**, open the **Operations Console**

6.  From the **Administration** workspace expand **Management Packs\\Installed
    Management Packs**.

7.  Use the **Import Management Packs** task to import the
    **Microsoft.SystemCenter.AzureStack.mpb** Management Pack from the
    **C:\\ManagementPacks** folder

8.  Leave the connection to **SCOM01** open

####   Task 2: Import the Azure Stack certificate and enable communications to Azure Stack

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location    | Value                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------------|
| Computer    | **SCOM01**                               |
| Tool        | **Certificate Import Wizard**            |
| Location    | **C:\\Management Packs**                 |
| Certificate | **AzureStackCertificationAuthority.cer** |

1.  Import the **AzureStackCertificationAuthority.**cer certificate into the
    **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** store for the **Local Machine**

2.  On **MAS-HOST01** obtain the **IP Addresses** for
    **adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external** and
    **adfs.local.azurestack.external**

3.  On **SCOM01**, edit the **C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc\\Hosts** file
    on **SCOM01** and add the following two lines:

>   192.168.102.7 adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external

>   192.168.102.5 adfs.local.azurestack.external

1.  If they are different, replace the **IP Addresses** with the ones obtained
    in **Step 2.**

2.  Note that there should be a space between the **IP address** and the **DNS
    name** but they should both be on the same line. You should have added two
    additional lines to the end of the **Hosts** file.

3.  Save and then close the **Hosts** file

4.  Restart **SCOM01** and then login and start the **Operations Console** using
    the **Steps 4 – 6** in the previous task

####   Task 3: Configuring the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                          |
|-----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer  | **SCOM01**                     |
| Tool      | **Operations Manager Console** |
| Workspace | **Administration**             |
| Node      | **Microsoft Azure Stack**      |

1.  Use the **Add Deployment** wizard to configure the **Microsoft Azure
    Management Pack** with the following settings. All other settings should
    remain as default:

    -   Endpoint URL: **https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external**

    -   Region: **local**

    -   Authentication Mode: **User Principal**

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Leave the **Operations Console** open

####   Task 4: Confirming Operations Manager Azure Stack Monitoring

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                          |
|-----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer  | **SCOM01**                     |
| Tool      | **Operations Manager Console** |
| Workspace | **Monitoring**                 |
| Node      | **Microsoft Azure Stack**      |

1.  From **Microsoft Azure Stack** node in the **Operations Console** review the
    information provided in the following views:

    -   Deployments

    -   Active Alerts

    -   Capacity Dashboard (also note the Microsoft Azure Stack **Region Tasks**
        that are available from the **Tasks** pane

    -   Health Dashboard

    -   Regions

2.  Close any existing **Alerts** in the **Active Alerts** view

3.  If the **local** Region in the **Regions** view is not shown in a
    **Healthy** state, perform the following additional steps:

4.  Refresh the **Active Alerts** view and then close any **Alerts** in the
    **Active Alerts** view

5.  In the **Regions** view, open the **Health Explorer** for the **local**
    Region

6.  Expand the health monitors and then reset the health for the lowest monitor

7.  Refresh the **Regions** view

8.  Leave the **Operations Manager Console** open

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have imported the Microsoft Azure
Management Pack into Operations Manager. You should have also configured
monitoring for Azure Stack in Operations Manager. Finally, you should have
confirmed that the Azure Stack environment is being monitored by Operations
Manager.

### Exercise 2: Monitoring Guest Operating Systems

Scenario

Contoso’s tenant Tailspin Toys has a number of virtual machines deployed in
Azure Stack that host applications such as SQL Server and IIS. They have
recently deployed Operations Manager to monitor these guest workloads. You must
configure Operations Manager to monitor the virtual machines including their
operating systems and the applications that they host.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Deploying the Operations Manager Agent

2.  Importing the Operations Manager Management Packs

3.  Confirming Operations Manager is monitoring the guest workloads

####   Task 1: Deploying the Operations Manager Agent

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                          |
|-----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer  | **SCOM01**                     |
| Tool      | **Operations Manager Console** |
| Workspace | **Administration**             |
| Action    | **Discovery Wizard**           |

1.  Use the **Computers and Devices Management Wizard** to install the
    Operations Manager Agent using the following settings. All other settings
    should remain as default:

    -   Auto or Advanced: **Advanced Discovery**

    -   Discovery Method: Browse for, or type-in computer names: **ADVM**

    -   Administrator Account: **AD\\demoadmin** and **Password12345**

    -   Select Objects to Manage: **ADVM.ad.contoso.com**

    -   Action Account: **AD\\demoadmin** and **Password12345**

2.  Leave the **Operations Console** open

3.  In the **Azure Stack** portal on **AZS-RDP01** that is logged in using the
    **ASUserX** account, from the **Virtual Machines** blade, connect and login
    to **ADVM** with the following credentials:

    -   User name: **.\\DemoAdmin**

    -   Password: **Password12345**

4.  Open an elevated **Command Prompt** and then navigate to **C:\\Program
    Files\\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\\Agent** and then enter the following
    commands:

>   hslockdown "ContosoAS" /R "NT AUTHORITY\\SYSTEM"

>   net stop healthservice

>   net start healthservice

1.  Close the **Command Prompt** window and then sign out of **ADVM**

####   Task 2: Importing the Operations Manager Management Packs

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                                            |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Computer  | **SCOM01**                                       |
| Tool      | **Operations Manager Console**                   |
| Workspace | **Administration**                               |
| Node      | **Management Packs\\Installed Management Packs** |

1.  Use the **Import Management Packs** task to import all Management Packs
    (except the **Microsoft.SystemCenter,AzureStack.mpb** Management Pack) from
    the **C:\\ManagementPacks** folder

2.  Wait until all **Management Packs** have been installed.

####   Task 3: Confirming Operations Manager is monitoring the guest workloads

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                          |
|-----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer  | **SCOM01**                     |
| Tool      | **Operations Manager Console** |
| Workspace | **Monitoring**                 |
| Node      | **Windows Computers**          |

1.  Confirm the **SCOM01** and **ADVM** virtual machines are being monitored in
    **Operations Manager** by reviewing the following views in the **Operations
    Manager Console**:

    -   Windows Computers

    -   Microsoft Windows Server\\Windows Server State

    -   Microsoft SQL Server\\Computers

    -   SQL Server Database Engines\\SQL Server 2016\\Database Engines

2.  Leave the Operations Manager Console open

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used Operations Manager to
deploy an agent to the Tailspin Toys virtual machines. You should have then
imported the Windows Server, SQL Server, and IIS Management Packs into
Operations Manager. Finally, you should have confirmed that Operations Manager
is monitoring the Tailspin Toys guest workloads.

### Exercise 3: Troubleshooting Azure Stack by using the Audit Logs and Alerts

Scenario

The Operations Manager environment monitoring the Azure Stack infrastructure has
generated an alert relating to one of the Azure Stack components. You must use
the Azure Stack Alerts feature to review the alert details and remediation
steps. Additionally, Contoso is concerned that the resource group management is
not being maintained effectively. To facilitate this, you must use the Audit
Logs to determine when resource groups are created and deleted and by whom.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts in Operations Manager

2.  Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts

3.  Reviewing Azure Stack Audit Logs

####   Task 1: Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts in Operations Manager

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value               |
|----------|---------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**      |
| Tool     | **Hyper-V Manager** |
| VM       | **Azs-CA01**        |
| Action   | **Shut Down**       |

1.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **MAS-HOST01** shut down the **AzS-CA01** virtual
    machine. This step should be performed by the instructor only and then
    viewed by the students.

2.  In the **Operations Manager Console** on **SCOM01** open the **Microsoft
    Azure Stack\\Active Alerts** view from the **Monitoring** workspace.

3.  Wait until the **Infrastructure role instance unavailable alert** appears in
    the **Active Alerts** view.

4.  Select the alert and in the **Alert Details** section, review the **Alert
    Description** to confirm that the **AzS-CA01** virtual machine is no longer
    available.

####   Task 2: Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **AZS-RDP01**                                     |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  Sign into the **Azure Stack** Portal with the following credentials:

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  From the **More Services** blade, open **Region Management**.

3.  Notice a **Warning** alert has been generated.

4.  Open the **Infrastructure role instance unavailable** alert and then review
    the alert details.

5.  In Hyper**-V Manager** on **MAS-HOST01**, start **AzS-CA01.** This step
    should only be performed by the instructor with the students viewing.

6.  Wait for 5 minutes.

7.  Refresh the **Azure Stack Portal** on **AzS-RDP01** and notice the
    **Warning** alert has now been resolved.

8.  Return to the home page of the **Azure Stack** portal and then leave
    **Internet Explorer** running

####   Task 3: Reviewing Azure Stack Audit Logs

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location            | Value                                             |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer            | **AZS-RDP01**                                     |
| Tool                | **Microsoft Azure Stack Portal - Administration** |
| Node                | **Resource Groups**                               |
| Resource Group Name | **TestX**                                         |

1.  In the **Azure Stack** Portal, create a new **Resource Group** named
    **TestX**.

2.  From the **More Services** node, open **Audit Logs.**

3.  Review the **Update resource group** log entry. You may need to Filter the
    view to show only events in the past 1 hour

4.  Open the entry and then review the correlated log entries.

5.  Delete the **TestX** Resource Group.

6.  In **Audit Logs**, review the **Delete resource group** log entry.

7.  Open the entry and review the correlated log entries.

8.  Close the **Azure Stack Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the **Active Alerts**
section in **Region Management** to review the alert information that is
provided when an Azure Stack infrastructure component is offline. You should
have also used the Audit Logs in the Azure Stack Portal to review log entries
that are created when a resource group is create or deleted.

>   **Question:** What are the three tasks that you must complete to monitor
>   Azure Stack with Operations Manager?

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
